Add initial version of CIP for Transaction serialization without `isV… (#1089)
cardano-foundation/CIPs: CIP-XXXX/README.md

---
CIP: XXXX

> Title: Standalone transaction serialization without the `isValid` flag
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: Remove the `isValid` flag from standalone transaction serialization
```
Of course @teodanciu @lehins if you can make it even shorter (without it being ambiguous) it would even better: since CIP titles tend to be short & usually shorter than this.

@Ryun1 @Crypto2099 @perturbing I don't think we have to remove the literal `` ` `` delimiters from CIP titles anymore.  This was mainly to prevent bugs in Docusaurus when the content was copied onto the Developer Portal... now not a problem since it links to `cips.cardano.org` which interprets the backticks correctly (I think).  If indeed it's not a problem after this is merged & rendered there, I'll remove the backtick prohibition from CIP-0001 (and CIP-9999 if it's also there) at the next all-around update.

Reviewer: Mainly resolved with https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/1089/commits/202edf555133a797383f6747c539b464bd907ad8 (@teodanciu you are also welcome to commit the changes from here in the UI so the resolution happens automatically... FYI there is still also the extra blank line in the header that would also have been corrected if the suggested change had been committed this way.)

> Title: Remove the `isValid` flag from standalone transaction serialization

Reviewer: cc @lehins:
> Is it implicitly understood that we mean serialization, if we remove this word from the title?

> Title: Remove the `isValid` flag from standalone transaction serialization

Reviewer 2: > since isValid is already specific, would we not say "Remove isValid" without the "the"?

I'll trust you on this one, since I can never get it right. (There are no `the` or `a` in Russian language :see_no_evil:)

> yes we're removing it from individual transactions, but aren't we therefore removing it from all of them... and therefore "from transactions" (plural)?

That sounds fine with me.

> Is it implicitly understood that we mean serialization, if we remove this word from the title?

Yes. It is implicitly understood from "serialization", since serialization is the public interface and that is what lives on chain. In other words, we don't need to specify how any CIP is actually implemented, since that is not relevant information for the rest of the community.

```cddl
transaction = [transaction_body, transaction_witness_set, auxiliary_data/ nil]
```

## Rationale: how does this CIP achieve its goals?

Removing the `isValid` flag from standalone transaction serialization simplifies the wire format without changing consensus or ledger semantics.

The trusted local client submission use case might be better expressed in a different way (for example, as a Node-to-Client submit parameter), rather than embedded in the transaction bytes.

## Path to Active

### Acceptance Criteria

- [ ] Transaction serializers and deserializers in [cardano-ledger](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-ledger) are implemented such that they follow the cddl specification described above, and reflected in the cddl specs
- [ ] The feature is integrated into [cardano-node](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/cardano-node) with necessary adjustments made to [ouroboros-consensus](https://github.com/IntersectMBO/ouroboros-consensus) and released as part of the Dijkstra era hard fork

### Implementation Plan

The implementation of this CIP should not proceed without an assessment of the potential impact on all the components that deserialise standalone transactions.

> ## Copyright

Reviewer 3: This isn't your problem, @teodanciu, since all the CIPs are like this, but I'm mentioning it in the hope that someone from the CF sees it.

A license isn't the same as a copyright. My understanding is that there needs to be a copyright holder in order for a license to have any meaning, because there has to be someone/entity that grants the license. I couldn't find a statement of a copyright owner anywhere in the repo. I suppose it can be inferred that it's the Cardano Foundation since the repo belongs to the CF's GitHub org, but it might be helpful to state this explicitly somewhere.

Reviewer: @neilmayhew it's not the CF's problem either, since they're not the authors of individual CIPs: although they could be, if a document they submitted & its GitHub history established that they were.  Original authorship is established for every file on GitHub by its user account with precise production dates of any posted original material.

If you think that's invalid because no "copyright" is obtained for that material, you are likely the only one who feels that way.  So the burden of proof would be on you to demonstrate that this GitHub history isn't a clear definition of authorship that could be used in any legal dispute... as well as defining the unique ability to grant a license.

Nobody is interested in copyrighting CIPs as far as I know: none of the authors so far, nor the CF, nor any of the CIP editors who maintain this repository.  If someone attempted to use CIP material in a way that's not allowed by its license, "my understanding" is that this would expose them to legal action depending on what consequences could be proven for that improper use.  I wouldn't want to be such an antagonist having to stake their defence on a claim like "there's no copyright holder, and the GitHub history is legally meaningless, so nobody lost anything by me stealing this material."

If you still want to pursue your criticism of our licensing strategy of the last 5 years (which was rigorously reviewed by the CF legal team in the early days of the CIP process - cc @KtorZ) then please open up a repository issue on that subject.  But if you want that issue to be seriously considered I would suggest you post more than unreferenced supposition about how open-source licenses are vulnerable without copyright filings.

Reviewer: @neilmayhew the wording may still be appropriate because it calls attention to the Licensed state of the material for anyone interested in its copyright.  Still, maybe that part can be improved and I'll try to kick that idea around to see what comes up & see if I can find out why in particular the section was titled that way (it might simply have been copied from BIPs or EIPs). 🤔
